README.md, before:

# RCite

## Synopsis

RCite is a tiny tool that can be used to generate citations and
bibliography entries based on parameterized literature descriptions in
the spirit of [BibTeX](http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/BibTeX),
[BibLaTeX](http://mirror.its.uidaho.edu/pub/tex-archive/help/Catalogue/entries/biblatex.html)
and [CSL](http://citationstyles.org/).

## Why RCite?

The existing solutions mentioned above all have one flaw in common: It is
utterly cumbersome to create or edit styles. BibTeX style syntax is extremely
hard to learn; BibLaTeX suffers from the fact that LaTeX itself is somewhat 
a hybrid between programming and markup language; and CSL uses XML to create
styles in a not very intuitive manner.

RCite attempts to avoid this flaw by making styles pure Ruby. Given its
simplicity and human-readability, Ruby is almost ideal for this purpose:
Beginners can use builtin methods to chain strings together, while experts
can command its full power to create complex styles.

## Installation

### ...as a Gem

    $ gem install rcite

### ...manually

    $ git clone git://github.com/JLimperg/rcite.git
    $ cd rcite
    $ bundle install

## Command Line Usage

The `rcite` command provides a (very) basic interface to RCite. It can be
used as follows:

    rcite [bib|cite] key --style=stylefile --bib=bibfile

    bib
      Causes the programme to generate a bibliography entry for the specified
      text, as opposed to a citation.
    cite
      Causes the programme to generate a citation for the specified
      text, as opposed to a bibliography entry.

    key
      The text's id, which is the unique identifier given in the bibfile.

    stylefile
      An RCite style. For instructions on how to make a style, see below.
    bibfile
      A BibTeX file containing bibliographic data about the texts you want
      to cite.

## Creating and Editing Styles

See the
[Style Guide](http://rubydoc.info/github/JLimperg/rcite/master/file/StyleGuide).

## Contributing

Please do! I am actually pretty much of a Ruby noob so do not hesitate to fix
my mistakes. ;) RCite is at the moment lacking quite a number of major
features which can partly be found in the 
[issue tracker on Github](https://github.com/JLimperg/rcite/issues).

Please take care, though, that your pull request/patch does not break the
spec examples and that it is itself thoroughly spec'ed and documented. I am
going for 100% code and documentation coverage, therefore it would be cool if you
could do so as well. Bonus points for topic branches.

### Testing

After having installed RCite (including the development dependencies), run the
following command:

    rake spec

### Documentation

Documentation can be generated in `./doc` using

    rake doc

Please do not use plain RDoc but rather YARD, otherwise things will probably
look strange.

### Bugs and Feature Requests

Please head to the
[issue tracker on Github](https://github.com/JLimperg/rcite/issues).

## License

RCite is licensed under the MIT license, a copy of which can be found in the
[LICENSE](http://rubydoc.info/github/JLimperg/rcite/master/file/LICENSE) file.

Commit message:

Adds documentation for the preprocessing feature
This commit adds the new ProcessingGuide that mostly
explains the syntax of preprocessing commands, as well
as some brief information in the README.

README.md, after:

# RCite

## Synopsis

RCite is a tiny tool that can be used to generate citations and
bibliography entries based on parameterized literature descriptions in
the spirit of [BibTeX](http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/BibTeX),
[BibLaTeX](http://mirror.its.uidaho.edu/pub/tex-archive/help/Catalogue/entries/biblatex.html)
and [CSL](http://citationstyles.org/).

## Why RCite?

The existing solutions mentioned above all have one flaw in common: It is
utterly cumbersome to create or edit styles. BibTeX style syntax is extremely
hard to learn; BibLaTeX suffers from the fact that LaTeX itself is somewhat 
a hybrid between programming and markup language; and CSL uses XML to create
styles in a not very intuitive manner.

RCite attempts to avoid this flaw by making styles pure Ruby. Given its
simplicity and human-readability, Ruby is almost ideal for this purpose:
Beginners can use builtin methods to chain strings together, while experts
can command its full power to create complex styles.

## Installation

### ...as a Gem

    $ gem install rcite

### ...manually

    $ git clone git://github.com/JLimperg/rcite.git
    $ cd rcite
    $ bundle install

## Command Line Usage

The `rcite` command provides a (very) basic interface to RCite. It can be
used as follows:

    rcite [bib|cite] --style=stylefile --bib=bibfile [--] key

    bib
      Causes the programme to generate a bibliography entry for the specified
      text.
    cite
      Causes the programme to generate a citation for the specified text.

    key
      The text's id, which is the unique identifier given in the bibfile.

    stylefile
      An RCite style. For instructions on how to make a style, see below.
    bibfile
      A BibTeX file containing bibliographic data about the texts you want
      to cite.

In addition to this 'manual' usage, RCite provides a preprocessing mode in
which it parses a file and replaces certain commands with citations or
bibliography entries. See the 
[Processing Guide](http://rubydoc.info/github/JLimperg/rcite/master/file/ProcessingGuide).

## Creating and Editing Styles

See the
[Style Guide](http://rubydoc.info/github/JLimperg/rcite/master/file/StyleGuide).

## Contributing

Please do! I am actually pretty much of a Ruby noob so do not hesitate to fix
my mistakes. ;) RCite is at the moment lacking quite a number of major
features which can partly be found in the 
[issue tracker on Github](https://github.com/JLimperg/rcite/issues).

Please take care, though, that your pull request/patch does not break the
spec examples and that it is itself thoroughly spec'ed and documented. I am
going for 100% code and documentation coverage, therefore it would be cool if you
could do so as well. Bonus points for topic branches.

### Testing

After having installed RCite (including the development dependencies), run the
following command:

    rake spec

### Documentation

Documentation can be generated in `./doc` using

    rake doc

Please do not use plain RDoc but rather YARD, otherwise things will probably
look strange.

### Bugs and Feature Requests

Please head to the
[issue tracker on Github](https://github.com/JLimperg/rcite/issues).

## License

RCite is licensed under the MIT license, a copy of which can be found in the
[LICENSE](http://rubydoc.info/github/JLimperg/rcite/master/file/LICENSE) file.
