docs/ProcessingGuide.md, before:

# Processing Files With RCite

RCite features a preprocessing mode that allows you to easily insert citations
and bibliography entries into arbitrary text files. This guide will show you
step by step how to do so.

## The Skeleton

Preprocessing is based on commands very similar to those on the command line
(`rcite cite` and `rcite bib`). RCite must know where to find those, therefore
they are surrounded by the so-called 'skeleton' which consists of four percent
signs.

```
%%[command goes here]%%
```

## Command Syntax

Each command starts with two words: the command itself ('cite' or 'bib') and
the unique key of the text you want to have a citation/bibliography entry
for. So if you want to want cite the text 'rauber2008', the whole command
would be:

```
%%cite rauber2008%%
```

### Page Numbers

When citing texts, you will frequently want to add a page number to your
citation. RCite provides a shortcode for that: Just add the page number after
the unique key.

```
%%cite rauber2008 25%%
```

This would cite page 25 of the 'rauber2008' text.

Page numbers are not restricted to actual numbers, however: You can also
specify page ranges and all sorts of other stuff here. For instance, to
cite pp. 25--33:

```
%%cite rauber2008 25--33%%
```

The only constraint is that page numbers **may not contain whitespace**,
especially space characters.

### Custom BibTeX fields

In some situations you might want to add a BibTeX field to one specific text
'on the fly' without putting it into your bibliography file. RCite supports
that too:

```
%%cite rauber2008 title: Rauber is cool, shorttitle: Rauber cool%%
```

Here we have specified a new `title` ('Rauber is cool') and `shorttitle`
('Rauber cool') for this specific citation. These override the `title` and
`shorttitle` values we might have in the bibliography file. Note that the
individual assignments are separated by commas.

In the same way you can also add page number values with whitespace:

```
%%cite rauber2008 thepage: §218 Rn. 30%%
```

Of course you can also specify a page number and custom fields simultaneously.
In this case, the page number *must* precede the custom fields.

```
%%cite rauber2008 25 title: Rauber is cool%%
```

Note that if you want to use special characters in your additional fields, you
must surround them with quotes:

```
%%cite rauber2008 title: 'Is Rauber cool?'%%
```

Commit message:

Adds page numbers with whitespace
In preprocessing mode, RCite now also accepts page numbers (or rather
things that serve the same purpose as page numbers) with whitespace,
like '§ 256'.

docs/ProcessingGuide.md, after:

# Processing Files With RCite

RCite features a preprocessing mode that allows you to easily insert citations
and bibliography entries into arbitrary text files. This guide will show you
step by step how to do so.

## The Skeleton

Preprocessing is based on commands very similar to those on the command line
(`rcite cite` and `rcite bib`). RCite must know where to find those, therefore
they are surrounded by the so-called 'skeleton' which consists of four percent
signs.

```
%%[command goes here]%%
```

## Command Syntax

Each command starts with two words: the command itself ('cite' or 'bib') and
the unique key of the text you want to have a citation/bibliography entry
for. So if you want to want cite the text 'rauber2008', the whole command
would be:

```
%%cite rauber2008%%
```

### Page Numbers

When citing texts, you will frequently want to add a page number to your
citation. RCite provides a shortcode for that: Just add the page number after
the unique key.

```
%%cite rauber2008 25%%
```

This would cite page 25 of the 'rauber2008' text.

Page numbers are not restricted to actual numbers, however: You can also
specify page ranges and all sorts of other stuff here. For instance, to
cite pp. 25--33:

```
%%cite rauber2008 25--33%%
```

However, if you want to use whitespace in your 'page number' (like spaces or
tabs, e.g. for citing a paragraph like '§ 256'), you must enclose it in
high commas, like so:

```
%%cite rauber2008 '§ 256'%%
```

### Custom BibTeX fields

In some situations you might want to add a BibTeX field to one specific text
'on the fly' without putting it into your bibliography file. RCite supports
that too:

```
%%cite rauber2008 title: Rauber is cool, shorttitle: Rauber cool%%
```

Here we have specified a new `title` ('Rauber is cool') and `shorttitle`
('Rauber cool') for this specific citation. These override the `title` and
`shorttitle` values we might have in the bibliography file. Note that the
individual assignments are separated by commas.

Of course you can also specify a page number and custom fields simultaneously.
In this case, the page number *must* precede the custom fields.

```
%%cite rauber2008 25 title: Rauber is cool%%
```

Note that if you want to use special characters in your additional fields, you
must surround them with quotes:

```
%%cite rauber2008 title: 'Is Rauber cool?'%%
```
