docs/StyleGuide.md, before:

# Creating and Editing RCite Styles

Creating and modifying an RCite style is very easy -- after all, that is what
it was designed for. A style basically consists of three things: The type
methods, the `add` command and the `sep` command.

For an example of a working style, see the {file:styles/teststyle.rb Teststyle}.

## Type Methods

RCite handles citations according to BibTeX types (@article, @book, @misc etc.),
assuming that an `article` will probably be processed differently than a `book`.
Your style has to tell RCite how to process these different types of text.

<small>Actually you can simply define your own types by creating the appropriate
methods and using the type in your BibTeX file. For example, as a law student
I will probably define some sort of `@commentary` type.</small>

Each BibTeX type corresponds to two methods in the style file: **bib_type**
and **cite_type**. The former is used to generate a bibliography entry for
the given text, while the latter creates a citation.

So if we want to cite books with our style, we would define the two
corresponding methods. Each starts with `def`, followed by the method name, and
each ends with `end`:

    def cite_book
      # method body goes here; see below
    end

    def bib_book
      # method body goes here; see below
    end

## '`add`' and '`add sep`'

### '`add`'

Now we can finally tell the style how to construct a citation/bibliography
entry.  To do so, we will determine which of the many BibTeX fields (`author`,
`title`, `year` etc.) we want to use in which order, and how they should be
separated from each other.

This will probably become clear by looking at an example of a `cite_book`
method:

    def cite_book
      add author
      add sep ": "
      add title
      add sep ", "
      add address
      add sep " "
      add year
    end

**Note that any literal text which should appear in the citation must be
enclosed in double or single quotes!** Most commonly, this will apply to
separators (see below).

This method would create a citation like the following:

    {Limperg, Jannis}{: }{RCite Usage Guide}{, }{Freiburg}{ }{2011}

I have marked each part of the citation that corresponds to one `add` command
in the `cite_book` method above with curly braces, so it should be
clear how things work. You can access each BibTeX field by simply adding its
name to an `add` command; standard fields like `year` as well as non-standard
ones like `shorttitle` or `url`.

<small>In case you need a field that collides with one of the other commands
-- f.ex. if you have a BibTeX field named `add` --, you can access it via
@text[:FIELDNAME]. Note the colon in front of `FIELDNAME`.</small>

### '`add sep`'

`add sep` indicates that the following item is a *separator*, as opposed to
a *BibTeX `field`*. Fields can be defined in the BibTeX file, but they can
also be empty, and in this case problems might arise.

Consider the following case: In the above citation, the person who created
the bibliography file wasn't able to find out the book's author. If we would
just chain everything together as usual, with an empty `author` field we would
get:

    {author missing here}: RCite Usage Guide, Freiburg 2011
    
So there would be a separator (the colon) which separates nothing and looks
really ugly. This is what the `add sep` method prevents. It makes sure that

1. if a separator is the first item in a citation, it is omitted.
2. if a separator is the last item in a citation, it is omitted.
3. if a separator directly succeeds another, the second one is omitted.

This means that you should usually not have to bother about empty fields etc.
if you use `add sep` for separators and `add` for fields.

## if...else

Sometimes you will, despite the magic of separators, want to test if a field
is set and do something according to the result. This is where
'`if ... elsif ... else`' comes in handy.

Let us look at an example first:

    def cite_book
      if author
        add author
        add sep ": "
      elsif editor
        add editor
        add sep " (Ed.): "
      else
        add "(Unknown Author):"
      end
      # [...]
    end

What this will do is:

1. If the author is set, it will print it and the corresponding separator.
2. If the author is not set, but the editor is, it will print the editor and
   its corresponding separator.
3. If both the author and the editor are set, it will print only the author.
4. If none of them are set, it will print "(Unknown Author):"

Conditions can also be combined using the boolean functions `&&` (AND) and
`||` (OR).

    def cite_book
      if author && editor
        add author
        add sep "; "
        add editor
        add sep " (Ed.): "
      end
      # [...]
    end

This would refine our style by defining a method to handle the simultaneous
presence of authors and editors (whatever that might be good for).

## Customizing the Author/Editor List

When multiple authors/editors are given for a certain text, RCite will
automatically generate nice lists for you. These can be customised by
adding a `default` method to your style:

    def default
      {
        :ordering => :last_first,
        :delim => '; ',
        :et_al => 3,
        :et_al_string => 'et al.',
      }
    end

The values shown in the example above are the default values that are used
if you do not define a `default` method. You can also define this method and
only change some of the options. The following sections will explain each option
in detail.

### Ordering

This parameter describes if the authors'/editors' names are printed as
'GivenName LastName' or as 'LastName GivenName'.

:first_last
  : Given name is printed first, followed by last name.

:last_first
  : Last name is printed first, followed by given name.

### Delimiter

The `:delim` option lets you choose any string that should be printed between
multiple authors/editors. Using f.ex. ';\<space>' here will result in
'Limperg, Jannis; Otto, Kai', whereas '|' would produce
'Limperg, Jannis|Otto, Kai'

### Et al.

`:et_al` indicates how many authors/editors should be listed before shortening
the list and appending `:et_al_string`. If you set this to `2` and have 3
authors defined in the bibliography file, the list would look like

    Limperg, Jannis; Otto, Kai et al.

`:et_al_string` can be any text that should be appended to the list if it is
shortened because there are too many authors/editors.

Commit message:

Updates documentation to reflect new options
The StyleGuide has been update to accomodate the new options management
system. It is still incomplete and needs a bit more love though.

docs/StyleGuide.md, after:

# Creating and Editing RCite Styles

Creating and modifying an RCite style is very easy -- after all, that is what
it was designed for. A style basically consists of three things: The type
methods, the `add` command and the `sep` command.

For an example of a working style, see the {file:styles/teststyle.rb Teststyle}.

## Type Methods

RCite handles citations according to BibTeX types (@article, @book, @misc etc.),
assuming that an `article` will probably be processed differently than a `book`.
Your style has to tell RCite how to process these different types of text.

<small>Actually you can simply define your own types by creating the appropriate
methods and using the type in your BibTeX file. For example, as a law student
I will probably define some sort of `@commentary` type.</small>

Each BibTeX type corresponds to two methods in the style file: **bib_type**
and **cite_type**. The former is used to generate a bibliography entry for
the given text, while the latter creates a citation.

So if we want to cite books with our style, we would define the two
corresponding methods. Each starts with `def`, followed by the method name, and
each ends with `end`:

    def cite_book
      # method body goes here; see below
    end

    def bib_book
      # method body goes here; see below
    end

## '`add`' and '`add sep`'

### '`add`'

Now we can finally tell the style how to construct a citation/bibliography
entry.  To do so, we will determine which of the many BibTeX fields (`author`,
`title`, `year` etc.) we want to use in which order, and how they should be
separated from each other.

This will probably become clear by looking at an example of a `cite_book`
method:

    def cite_book
      add author
      add sep ": "
      add title
      add sep ", "
      add address
      add sep " "
      add year
    end

**Note that any literal text which should appear in the citation must be
enclosed in double or single quotes!** Most commonly, this will apply to
separators (see below).

This method would create a citation like the following:

    {Limperg, Jannis}{: }{RCite Usage Guide}{, }{Freiburg}{ }{2011}

I have marked each part of the citation that corresponds to one `add` command
in the `cite_book` method above with curly braces, so it should be
clear how things work. You can access each BibTeX field by simply adding its
name to an `add` command; standard fields like `year` as well as non-standard
ones like `shorttitle` or `url`.

<small>In case you need a field that collides with one of the other commands
-- f.ex. if you have a BibTeX field named `add` --, you can access it via
@text[:FIELDNAME]. Note the colon in front of `FIELDNAME`.</small>

### '`add sep`'

`add sep` indicates that the following item is a *separator*, as opposed to
a *BibTeX `field`*. Fields can be defined in the BibTeX file, but they can
also be empty, and in this case problems might arise.

Consider the following case: In the above citation, the person who created
the bibliography file wasn't able to find out the book's author. If we would
just chain everything together as usual, with an empty `author` field we would
get:

    {author missing here}: RCite Usage Guide, Freiburg 2011
    
So there would be a separator (the colon) which separates nothing and looks
really ugly. This is what the `add sep` method prevents. It makes sure that

1. if a separator is the first item in a citation, it is omitted.
2. if a separator is the last item in a citation, it is omitted.
3. if a separator directly succeeds another, the second one is omitted.

This means that you should usually not have to bother about empty fields etc.
if you use `add sep` for separators and `add` for fields.

## if...else

Sometimes you will, despite the magic of separators, want to test if a field
is set and do something according to the result. This is where
'`if ... elsif ... else`' comes in handy.

Let us look at an example first:

    def cite_book
      if author
        add author
        add sep ": "
      elsif editor
        add editor
        add sep " (Ed.): "
      else
        add "(Unknown Author):"
      end
      # [...]
    end

What this will do is:

1. If the author is set, it will print it and the corresponding separator.
2. If the author is not set, but the editor is, it will print the editor and
   its corresponding separator.
3. If both the author and the editor are set, it will print only the author.
4. If none of them are set, it will print "(Unknown Author):"

Conditions can also be combined using the boolean functions `&&` (AND) and
`||` (OR).

    def cite_book
      if author && editor
        add author
        add sep "; "
        add editor
        add sep " (Ed.): "
      end
      # [...]
    end

This would refine our style by defining a method to handle the simultaneous
presence of authors and editors (whatever that might be good for).

## Customizing the Author/Editor List

When multiple authors/editors are given for a certain text, RCite will
automatically generate nice lists for you. These can be customised by
adding a `preamble` method to your style:

    def preamble 
      _ordering     :last_first
      _delim        '; '
      _et_al        3
      _et_al_string 'et al.'
    end

The values shown in the example above are the default values that are used
if you do not explicitely set them. You can also define a `preamble` method and
only change some of the options. The following sections will explain each option
in detail.

### Ordering

This parameter describes if the authors'/editors' names are printed as
'GivenName LastName' or as 'LastName GivenName'.

:first_last
  : Given name is printed first, followed by last name.

:last_first
  : Last name is printed first, followed by given name.

### Delimiter

The `delim` option lets you choose any string that should be printed between
multiple authors/editors. Using f.ex. ';\<space>' here will result in
'Limperg, Jannis; Otto, Kai', whereas '|' would produce
'Limperg, Jannis|Otto, Kai'

### Et al.

`et_al` indicates how many authors/editors should be listed before shortening
the list and appending `et_al_string`. If you set this to `2` and have 3
authors defined in the bibliography file, the list would look like

    Limperg, Jannis; Otto, Kai et al.

`et_al_string` can be any text that should be appended to the list if it is
shortened because there are too many authors/editors.

## Options in Preprocessing Mode

You can control the output of commands in processing mode (see the
{file:ProcessingGuide.md Processing Guide}) with the following options. As with
the options for the author/editor list, these can be set in the preamble:

    def preamble
      around_each_bib  "", ""
      around_each_cite "", ""
      around_all_bibs  "", ""
      around_all_cites "", ""
      between_bibs     "\n"
      between_cites    "; "
    end

TODO describe options in detail
